\subsection*{Organization}

This work is organized into two distinct parts: \Part{part:spr}, which
contains the investigations regarding interference and scattering in surface
plasmon resonance, and \Part{part:qcm} which contains investigations regarding
the centrifugal force quartz crystal microbalance.

\Part{part:spr} begins with \Chapter{ch:sprintro}, an introduction to the
historical perspective motivating the work.  \Chapter{ch:existence} proceeds
with a short mathematical derivation of the existence of SPPs and the
conditions under which they may be excited.  The derivation furthers the
motivation for specific choices of materials and experimental configurations
in \Chapter{ch:experimental}.  Accordingly, \Chapter{ch:experimental}
describes the physical experiment: mechanical construction, protocols, and
data analysis.  \Chapter{ch:existence} and \Chapter{ch:experimental} form the
mathematical and physical basis for the remaining part of this work.

Discussion and analysis of new results for \Part{part:spr} are the subject of
the remaining three chapters.  \Chapter{ch:interference} describes a newly
discovered interference phenomena and its utility in the context of
conventional SPR bulk refractive index sensing measurements.

Following, \Chapter{ch:speckle} describes one of the most significant
properties of the experiment: cone speckle.  A formalism for describing cone
speckle is proposed, relating its properties to classical optical speckle
fields using statistical properties, correlations, refractive index
perturbations, and single and multiple scattering phenomena.

Finally, \Chapter{ch:scatteringmicro} describes investigations regarding the
influence of cone speckle on the underlying scattering microstructure.  It is
demonstrated that in an unmodified conventional SPR setup, it is possible to
resolve the motion and presence of single nanoparticles, extending the breadth
of SPR experiments to encompass both bulk sensing and discrete events.

Moving from optical to mechanical biosensors, \Part{part:qcm} describes
experiments with a new type of instrument, the centrifugal force quartz
crystal microbalance (CF-QCM), as a tool designed to investigate the
mechanical properties of discrete and bulk samples interacting with a QCM
under centrifugal force.  \Part{part:qcm} begins with
\Chapter{ch:qcmfoundations}, motivating the instrument and providing
a historical context for its invention.  \Chapter{ch:qcmfoundations} also
describes the relevant physical model used allowing one to predict its
response under different samples and load situations.

As in \Chapter{ch:experimental} of \Part{part:spr},
\Chapter{ch:qcmexperimental} of \Part{part:qcm} details all experimental
aspects of the instrument: its construction, operation, and data
acquisition circuitry.  Inherent additions to the QCM sensorgram,
environmental effects and noise, are also considered.

The experimental results of \Part{part:qcm} are presented in
\Chapter{ch:qcmloadsituations}, describing the behavior of the CF-QCM for a
wide range of samples: bulk liquid, discrete microparticles, and
viscoelastic layers of DNA\@.  The different samples are investigated both
free and, in the case of microparticles, attached to the surface with
DNA\@.

Finally, predictions regarding CF-QCM behavior for samples which have not yet
been subject to experiment are contained in \Chapter{ch:qcmsimulation},
facilitated by a finite element simulation.  Complimenting the experiment, the
finite element simulation is used to predict the response of discrete
biomollecules: cells, agarose microparticles, and lysozyme microcrystals.
These bioparticles and molecules are representative of the enormous range of
viscoelastic material properties found in nature and highlight the potential
uses of the CF-QCM sensing concept.
