#LyX 2.0 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 413
\begin_document
\begin_header
\textclass report
\begin_preamble
\usepackage{t1enc}
\usepackage[T1]{fontenc}
\usepackage{ulem}
\usepackage{import}
\usepackage{amsmath}
\usepackage{amssymb}
\usepackage{paralist}
\usepackage{booktabs}
\usepackage[version=3]{mhchem}
\usepackage{wrapfig}
\usepackage{pifont}
\usepackage{mathrsfs}
\usepackage{tikz}
\usepackage{xcolor}
\usepackage{color}
\usepackage{enumitem}
\usepackage{datetime}

\let\oldsqrt\sqrt
% it defines the new \sqrt in terms of the old one
\def\sqrt{\mathpalette\DHLhksqrt}
\def\DHLhksqrt#1#2{%
\setbox0=\hbox{$#1\oldsqrt{#2\,}$}\dimen0=\ht0
\advance\dimen0-0.2\ht0
\setbox2=\hbox{\vrule height\ht0 depth -\dimen0}%
{\box0\lower0.4pt\box2}}

\usepackage{pgfplots}
\pgfplotsset{compat=newest}
\usepgfplotslibrary{units}
\usetikzlibrary{pgfplots.units}
\usetikzlibrary{calc}

% custom colors for 2D plots - these are the same ones mathematica uses by
% default
\definecolor{colora}{RGB}{63,61,153}
\definecolor{colorb}{RGB}{153,61,113}
\definecolor{colorc}{RGB}{153,139,61}
\definecolor{colord}{RGB}{61,153,86}
\definecolor{colore}{RGB}{61,90,153}
\definecolor{colorf}{RGB}{153,61,144}
\definecolor{colorg}{RGB}{153,109,61}
\definecolor{colorh}{RGB}{67,153,61}
\definecolor{colori}{RGB}{61,121,153}
\definecolor{colorj}{RGB}{132,61,153}

\pgfplotsset{
 /pgfplots/colormap={jet}{rgb255(0cm)=(0,0,128) rgb255(1cm)=(0,0,255)
 rgb255(3cm)=(0,255,255) rgb255(5cm)=(255,255,0) rgb255(7cm)=(255,0,0)
 rgb255(8cm)=(128,0,0)}
}
\usepgfplotslibrary{units}
\usetikzlibrary{pgfplots.units}

\usepackage{siunitx}
\DeclareSIUnit\molar{\mole\per\cubic\deci\metre}
\DeclareSIUnit\Molar{\textsc{M}}
\end_preamble
\options a4paper
\use_default_options true
\maintain_unincluded_children false
\language english
\language_package default
\inputencoding auto
\fontencoding global
\font_roman default
\font_sans default
\font_typewriter default
\font_default_family default
\use_non_tex_fonts false
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100
\font_tt_scale 100

\graphics default
\default_output_format default
\output_sync 0
\bibtex_command default
\index_command default
\paperfontsize default
\spacing single
\use_hyperref false
\papersize default
\use_geometry false
\use_amsmath 1
\use_esint 1
\use_mhchem 1
\use_mathdots 1
\cite_engine basic
\use_bibtopic false
\use_indices false
\paperorientation portrait
\suppress_date false
\use_refstyle 1
\branch Overview
\selected 0
\filename_suffix 0
\color #ffffff
\end_branch
\index Index
\shortcut idx
\color #008000
\end_index
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation indent
\paragraph_indentation default
\quotes_language english
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\html_math_output 0
\html_css_as_file 0
\html_be_strict false
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Title

\series bold
\size huge
Interference and Scattering in Surface Plasmon Resonance
\end_layout

\begin_layout Author
Aaron Webster
\end_layout

\begin_layout Abstract
Biosensors based on surface plasmon resonance continue to attract attention
 as a simple and remarkably responsive label-free method for interrogating
 biomolecular interactions.
 Perhaps the most popular platforms guided by this principle are those which
 excite localized surface plasmons using thin metal films in prism coupled
 configurations.
 These platforms, despite their ubiquity and commercial success, are host
 to an amazing depth of phenomena which has to this date received little
 to no attention.
 In this minithesis, I detail investigations regarding the spatial evolution
 of reflected and scattered light from such a system.
 These results indicate a possible avenue for advancing the ultimate detection
 limits of surface plasmon based biosensors.
 Proposals for future work are also explored, drawing an analogy between
 polariton excitation and the Mach-Zehnder interferometer.
 This analogy suggests the possibility of performing interaction-free measuremen
ts using biomolecular targets.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Chapter
Overview
\end_layout

\begin_layout Chapter
Appendix
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Colophon
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
This dissertation was typeset using 
\begin_inset Preview

\begin_layout Standard
\begin_inset ERT
status open

\begin_layout Plain Layout

pdf
\backslash
LaTeX
\end_layout

\end_inset


\end_layout

\end_inset

.
 All two dimensional plots were rendered using pgfplots with styles influenced
 by prettyplotlib and the works of Eduard Tufte.
 Colors were chosen from datasets researched by Jan Brewer.
 Schematics and other line drawings were prepared using Inkscape.
 Writing done in Linux using Vim.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The Monte Carlo simulations were written in 
\family typewriter
c
\family default
 with pararallelism accomplished using 
\family typewriter
mpi
\family default
.
 The vortex tracking and image processing algorithms were written in octave.
 Parallell execution was done on the woody cluster at the RRZE, Erlangen.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
\begin_inset CommandInset bibtex
LatexCommand bibtex
bibfiles "bibliography"
options "plain"

\end_inset


\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
