As sensors, QCMs found their initial applications monitoring thin film
deposition in vacuums.  Here it was found that a QCM would exhibit a
frequency shift $\df$ linearly proportional to the adsorbed mass.  This
work was first carried out by \name{Sauerbrey} in the vacuum phase.  This
\texit{Sauerbrey relation} predicted (and was only vaild for) sub-monolayer
thicknesses of rigidly attached (metal, dielectric) layers.  This is the
reason the name QCM includes the word ``microbalance''.

Initially it was thought that the low $Q$ mechanical resonance of the QCM
precluded its use in the liquid phase.  This was incorrect, as subsequent
work published in 1985 by \name{Gordon} and
\name{Kanazawa}~\cite{kanazawa1985frequency} extended the treatment of
\name{Sauerbrey} to the liquid phase.  These relations, derived from a
Butterworth van Dyke equivalent circuit, predicted the resonant frequency
of the QCM to be sensitive to the density-viscosity product of the liquid
in contact with the crystal.  It is important to note that, in the
treatment by both Sauerbrey and Gordon and Kanazawa, the frequency shifts
are always \textit{negative} as a function of increasing mass or
density-viscosity.

The same year, \name{Dybwad} published a rather elegant
experiment~\cite{dybwad} in which he looked at the frequency shift of a QCM
in air when a single micron sized gold particle was placed on the sensor
surface.  Remarkably, \name{Dybwad} reported a \textit{positive} frequency
shift.  Dybwad explained this result with a coupled oscillator model,
assuming that the gold particle remained at rest in the laboratory frame
while the QCM oscillated beneath it.  The coupling between the two systems
was mediated by the strength of the contact between the particle and the
QCM, which determined the sign of the frequency shift.  In the weak
coupling regime, the particle was at rest and the negative frequency shift
predicted by \name{Sauerbrey} was observed.  In the strong coupling regime,
the particle took part in the motion of the QCM and a positive frequency
shift was observed.

We will partake of the details of this model shortly, for now it is enough
to note the importance of \name{Dybwad}'s work as the first attempt at a
continuum model for QCM behavior, encompassing both positive and negative
frequency shifts.

\name{Dybwad}'s work remained largely unnoticed until the last decade, with 


Some dingus guys use a nanoindenter probe combined with a QCM, this is
where we jump off.

Our story begins with 

This takes us to the present day when \name{Sato}, inspired by another
centrfugal force guy, proposed blah by Ken and Wesley.

Last, Yuki got the idea from other applicaions of force on stuff done by
Ken and Wesley.  So plan to jump into the main text.

