#LyX 2.0 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 413
\begin_document
\begin_header
\textclass article
\use_default_options true
\maintain_unincluded_children false
\language english
\language_package default
\inputencoding auto
\fontencoding global
\font_roman default
\font_sans default
\font_typewriter default
\font_default_family default
\use_non_tex_fonts false
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100
\font_tt_scale 100

\graphics default
\default_output_format default
\output_sync 0
\bibtex_command default
\index_command default
\paperfontsize default
\use_hyperref false
\papersize default
\use_geometry false
\use_amsmath 1
\use_esint 1
\use_mhchem 1
\use_mathdots 1
\cite_engine basic
\use_bibtopic false
\use_indices false
\paperorientation portrait
\suppress_date false
\use_refstyle 1
\index Index
\shortcut idx
\color #008000
\end_index
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation indent
\paragraph_indentation default
\quotes_language english
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\html_math_output 0
\html_css_as_file 0
\html_be_strict false
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Title
Changing Sputtering Targets
\end_layout

\begin_layout Author
Aaron Webster
\end_layout

\begin_layout Date
\begin_inset ERT
status open

\begin_layout Plain Layout


\backslash
today
\end_layout

\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
This document describes the procedure to change a target in the AJA sputtering
 machine.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Enumerate
Turn the pump to the main chamber OFF.
 Wait until it depressurizes and you can open the main chamber.
 This will take less time than the load lock, but still several minutes.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Enumerate
Locate the target you wish to change by opening and closing the appropriate
 shutter in the computer interface.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Enumerate
Remove the shutter assembly by removing the two long screws holding it in
 place.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Enumerate
The shutter will dangle there.
 Move it out of the way and remove the cowl enveloping the target.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Enumerate
Remove the target by removing the four short screws holding it into place.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Enumerate
Dielectrics will usually have a copper base.
 Metal targets are usually just the metal and must have a copper mesh electrical
ly coupling them to the base.
 Take care that you do not damage or lose this coupling.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Enumerate
Replace the target, cowl, and shutter by reversing the procedure.
 The removed target is to be sealed in a bag to protect it from dust.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Enumerate
Switch on the vacuum and wait about fifteen minutes for it to pump down.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Enumerate
In the computer interface under System→Config, change the target to the
 new labeled target.
\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
