Biosensors based on surface plasmon resonance (SPR) play a central role as
a simple and remarkably responsive label-free method for characterizing and
quantifying biomolecular
interactions~\cite{homola1999surface}~\cite{homola2006surface}.  Among the
most popular of these sensor platforms are those which excite localized
surface plasmon polaritons (SPPs) on thin metal films in prism coupled
configurations~\cite{hoa2007towards}.  Such platforms, despite their
ubiquity and commercial success, are host to an amazing depth of useful
phenomena which has yet to be explored in the context of biosensing.  In
addition to the high field enhancement responsible for their high
sensitivity in bulk refractive index measurements, the SPPs themselves
possess high spatial resolution beyond the diffraction limit; a property
traditionally absent as a specific feature of an SPR sensorgram.  

The high spatial resolution of SPPs is perhaps best exemplified by an
instrument known as a scanning plasmon optical
microscope~\cite{kim1995scanning}~\cite{kim1996scanning} (SPOM).  In a
SPOM, surface plasmons excited on a metal surface are scattered into a cone
by a sharp tip, typically in the same class as those used for scanning
tunneling microscopes (STMs) with single-atom
sharpness~\cite{binnig2000scanning}.  By raster scanning the tip over a
surface of interest where SPPs are excited, a sub-micron image of the
scattering microstructure may be reconstructed from the tip-dependent
intensity of the conically scattered light.  Specific to the SPOM
configuration, \name{Kim} et al.\ noted that the intensity of the conically
scattered light is specifically sensitive to defects or irregularities on
the surface~\cite{kim1996scanning}.  

The present work is insipred by the SPOM concept, importing it into the
heart of SPR biosensing.  Instead of the tip used in the SPOM setup,
nanoparticles introduced into a fluidic chamber in a typical SPR biosensor
are used in conjunction with optical speckle in the conically scattered
light signal to obtain information regarding the underlying scattering
microstructure.  Specifically, it is demonstrated that by monitoring
speckle in the cone, the motion and addition of single nanoparticles can be
detected, extending the breadth of SPR experiments to encompass both bulk
sensing and discrete events.  In addition, the present work will
investigate the optical structure of the conically scattered light, a field
which contains additional bio-relevant features such as near field
self-interference, speckle, and optical vortices.  The results suggest
several possible avenues for advancing the detection limits of surface
plasmon based biosensors for both single particles and bulk refractive
index measurements.

%A photon is a quantized oscillation of the electromagnetic field.  When an
%electromagnetic field is in proximity to an interface such as the surface
%of a metal, oscillations of free charge can be induced.  If the field is
%evanescent in both directions orthogonal to the surface, the oscillations
%become localized and are known as surface plasmons (SPs).  Furthermore, if
%conditions exist such that the in-plane momentum and phase of an incident
%photon and the surface plasmon match, the coupling produces a hybrid
%excitation known as surface plasmon polariton (SPP).  An SPP is trapped on
%the interface and propagates until it decays; either re-radiating as a
%photon or being absorbed into the metal as heat.
%
%SPPs, like photons, are quantum mechanical objects.  Given system is
%momentum-conserving, elastically scattered plasmons will preserve all the
%information of their parent field.  
